For the telephone to work properly
at you needed control plane and
the evolutions that happened over the next
100 years in the telephone network.
So think of this,
if Alice wants to talk to Bob,
you need one line,
which is the figure that we showed you.
If you have many, many more people and
anybody may want to talk to each other,
you would need a data plane,
but between each one of them.
This is a very, very inefficient scheme,
because you would need a lot of lines.
The costs would be extremely prohibitive.
And what the AT&T system did
was come up with this star network to
connect to all of the subscribers.
So if Alice wants to talk to Bob,
Alice will call Ernestine,
who's the operator in the middle, and
Ernestine will connect Alice and Bob.
And if Cathy wants to talk to George,
it goes through the same thing.
So if you had N users in the system,
you need N choose two
which turns out to be N times and
minus one divided by two.
Close to N square for
large values of N, to make
connections between any given user and
any other user.
For a thousand people this is almost like.
Half a million pairs of copper.
For the start network that we just saw,
you need N plus 1 connections
to make the system work.
And with this innovation they just
could not hire operators fast enough.
This had become an Achilles heel for
the growth of the network.
And the next big step from manual control
plane to an automated control plane.
This was invented by Strowger, who was,
who had an undertaking
business in a small city, and
he had a competition and the competitor's
wife was actually a telephone operator.
So whenever somebody called and
this operator got the call, instead of
connecting to Mr. Strowger's business, she
would send the business her husband's way.
And when Mr. Strowger found out about
this, he came up with this, an automated
way, which is called a step-by-step
switch that would automatically.
The users could connect to another
user by dialing the number.
This is when the rotary
dial came in to existence.
The next big innovation
is the cross bar switch.
This was invented by Ericsson in Sweden,
and
then refined by many,
many switch operators following that.
It's organized like
a matrix with inputs and
outputs, and at the connection point,
you just throw in a relay and
make the connection between the calling
person and the called person.
So in order to house these switches,
you had huge buildings with enormous
power consumption and
really deafening noise.
But at least customers
could dial both local and
long distance numbers by themselves.
This means that a significant number of
the bottlenecks in the control plane were
slowly getting results.
And subsequently,
the switch itself became electronic.
You had transistors and
computers that were making the connection
between the colors and call parties.
This is a DMS-100 switch,
developed by Northern Telecom in Canada.
And this was in the 70s, and
we start seeing the switches getting
a lot more powerful and power efficient.
I would like to quickly flash
the blog diagram of this.
DMS 100 switch that I got from Vickie.
I don't expect you to follow this.
My takeaway message here in showing this,
is that the central office,
which housed all these switches,
had become massive computers
with all the pros and
cons of upgrading the functionality
by using software.
We will come back to
this a little bit later.
But before we leave this topic,
I want to convey that
the telephone system,
the AT&T system had become
extremely powerful and
profitable, and
I want to convey this using
the quintessential telephone operator,
Lily Tomlin, acting as Ernestine, Jimmy.
Now Mr. Vidle, it's Tomlin again.
About this unpaid phone bill.
Now when may we, well Mr.
Vidle, I just don't see why
you're kicking up such a ruckus,
when according to our files your present
bank balance plus stock, securities and
other holdings amount to exactly 300 and,
what privileged information?
[LAUGH] Oh, Mr. Beadle, that's so cute.
No, Mr. Beadle,
you're dealing with the telephone company.
For instance, now, as I look through your
income tax return for 1965, Mr. Beadle?
Mister, hello?
Mr. Veedul?
Mister?
[SOUND] Mr. Beadle, it's me again.
[LAUGH] We seem to be a bit disconnected.
Now, Mr. Beadle,
I want you to understand something.
We are not subject to city,
state, or federal regulations.
We are omnipotent.
Omnipotent.
[LAUGH] That's potent with
an omni in front of it.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Now then, Mr.
Beadle, when may we expect payment?
Aww, Mr. Beadle, I'm afraid we're going to
have to discontinue your outgoing service.
[LAUGH]
>> And if we do not receive payment
within ten days, we will send a large,
burly serviceman to your home,
>> [LAUGH]
>> To rip it out of the wall.
>> I'd advise
you to lock up the liquor,
he's a mean drunk.
[LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH]